W11910 -- evidence for the sixth review's [P1].

The review: `EventBridge.#drain` selects only `state.queue[0]`. When that head
is a deferred Work, the branch retains it and returns, so nothing behind it
drains. A Work-only gate was governing the whole FIFO by queue position -- and
the directed obligation a participant must answer to FINISH the very Work whose
claim B waits behind can be the thing queued behind B. A waits on an answer
that waits on A.


THE CORRECTION

  tools/codex-event-bridge/src/event_bridge.mjs

  B stays exactly where it is: retained at the head, v11 in-flight identity
  unreleased, no turn spent, same bounded retry. What changes is that the queue
  behind it is offered the barrier one action at a time, by `#pastTheClaimSlot`.

  THE VERDICT DECIDES, not the queued event's own `action` block. That block is
  a historical bit from producer time, and scheduling from it is the defect the
  THIRD review found one layer up; the same read every drain already performs
  is what answers here. `live` is exactly the set that may pass, and the
  review's four requirements fall out of it rather than being enumerated:

    a current non-Work action        live      -> passes; the one-claim slot
                                                 governs Work
    a current CLAIMED Work           live      -> passes; the participant's own
                                                 assignment being recovered,
                                                 which preserves promotion
    another current UNCLAIMED Work   deferred  -> cannot pass, against the same
                                                 occupied slot
    unreadable / withdrawn           uncertain -> passes nothing
                                     / over

  Two candidates are skipped BEFORE the read rather than after it. An event
  with no action block is a generic non-readiness delivery and `#revalidate`
  answers `live` for one by construction -- it has nothing to ask about -- so
  reading it would rotate exactly what the review says must not rotate. An
  ambiguous one belongs to `#reconcileAmbiguous`, which is the head's path.

  The scan stops at the first candidate that may pass, so the ordinary case
  with nothing queued behind the head costs no read at all.


MEASURED

  The review's own case, against the pre-change head-only drain:

    $ node test/claim_slot.test.mjs        tests 38; pass 37; fail 1
      FAIL a deferred Work at the queue head does not hold a later obligation

  THREE ADDITIVE CASES, because a rule that holds by CONSEQUENCE is a rule
  nothing would notice losing. Each proves one of the review's other three
  requirements:

    a second unclaimed Work does not rotate past a deferred one
    a generic non-readiness event does not rotate past a deferred Work
    a claimed Work behind a deferred one is its own recovery and passes


AND THE SECOND MEASUREMENT CORRECTED THE THIRD CASE

  The generic-event case first asserted only that no turn started, and it
  passed WITH the pre-read guard removed. That did not prove the guard; it
  proved the assertion could not see what the guard does.

  Removing the guard does not produce a rotation. The scan reaches an event
  with no action block, faults composing a log line about a key that is not
  there, the head is marked ambiguous by the drain's own catch, and every
  bounded retry repeats it. Turn ORDER survives that, so an order-only
  assertion passed either way -- which is the vacuous-probe shape this
  repository keeps correcting, found here in my own added case.

  The case now records the warning channel and requires it EMPTY, and that is
  what discriminates:

    guard present   tests 41; pass 41; fail 0
    guard removed   tests 41; pass 40; fail 1
      FAIL a generic non-readiness event does not rotate past a deferred Work
           "the claim-slot scan faulted on an event carrying no action"

  So the honest statement of what that guard does is: it prevents a FAULT
  LOOP, not a rotation. The review asked that a generic event not pass the
  barrier, and it does not -- but the reason is the guard, and without it the
  barrier breaks rather than leaks.

  Source restored byte for byte after every mutation, md5
  a350f4d6ab59446abad6149c7ddc30dd.


GREEN

    tools/codex-event-bridge   npm test    tests 413; pass 413; fail 0
    tools/acp-baton-bridge     npm test    tests 70;  pass 70;  fail 0
    the whitespace check                   clean

  Codex focused 410 -> 413 (the review's case, plus the three above).
  ACP is unchanged at 70: this defect is the dispatcher's queue discipline and
  the ACP loop already continues after a deferred Work, which the review
  itself notes.


STILL THE OPERATOR'S

  PLAN item 9's live smoke and item 10's deploy. Nothing here was verified
  against the running deployment, and no repository state was mutated.
