W641 — second correction
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-23T20-20-01Z.md (one P1 plus a required
composition).


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  node --test v12/test/worker_manager_agent_handshake.test.mjs  26 pass, 2 fail

Exactly the two additive review regressions. The finding is correct.


2. THE P1, AND WHY IT ARRIVED TWICE

A Proxy whose traps ANSWER passes a record proof built to catch traps that
THROW. Both capability levels accepted one, and caller code ran while policy
was being decided.

This is the same defect W2929's sixth reconnect review found in the OTHER copy
of these rules, one round earlier. I raised the duplication as W641 plan item 7
yesterday and predicted it would cost something; it cost this. Two
implementations of one rule earned the same finding twice, independently.


3. THE COMPOSITION THE REVIEW REQUIRED, AND IT IS THE WHOLE FIX

There is now ONE record proof: `v12/src/worker_manager/records.mjs`. Both
`agent_handshake.mjs` and `agent_reconnect.mjs` call it and neither carries its
own copy any more.

  classify(value)        one non-observing, translated snapshot
  describe(value, seen)  a rejected value named from inert facts only
  isPlainRecord(...)     data without behaviour
  recordFault(v, want)   ...with exactly these members, or why not

A Proxy is rejected FIRST, by `node:util/types.isProxy`, which reads an
internal slot and runs no trap. The review is right that another try/catch is
not acceptable: a successful trap walks past one.

THE CALLERS KEEP THEIR OWN TAXONOMIES. The module returns facts and prose and
never a `ContractError` -- `integrity.schema` at reconnect and `policy.denied`
at the capability envelope are the callers' policies, and a shared primitive
that threw one of them would be deciding something that is not its business.

THE MODULE HEADER CARRIES THE HISTORY. Six review rounds produced six rules --
do not serialize the value, do not read it, do not interview what was thrown,
"runs no user code" is not "cannot fail", translating a trap that throws does
nothing about a trap that answers, and looking empty is not being the empty
document. Each was learned by getting it wrong. They are written where the
next person to touch this will read them, because the rules are not obvious
and every one of them cost a review round.


4. TOUCHING RECONNECT WHILE W4 IS IN REVIEW, AND WHY

`agent_reconnect.mjs` is inside W4's item 4af, which is with baton.feat right
now. I declined to unify yesterday for exactly that reason. This review
overrides that: it names plan item 7, pulls it into this correction, and says
two divergent fixes would leave the duplication item 7 exists to remove.

NO ASSERTION IN EITHER SUITE CHANGED. I chose the shared vocabulary to be
reconnect's existing vocabulary precisely so W4's in-review cases keep passing
unedited -- "an object with a prototype of its own", "an object that refused
inspection", "an array", "a Proxy" are the strings that module already
produced. The handshake's messages gained the same words. The only
call-site changes in reconnect are the import and one argument order.

Both suites are green with no test edits: reconnect 32/32 unchanged from item
4af, handshake 28/28.


5. MUTATIONS -- EIGHT, AGAINST ALL THREE SUITES AT ONCE

  S1 the Proxy test removed                        9 cases fail
  S2 the Proxy test decides AFTER the traps run    7 cases fail
  S3 the reflection wrapper removed                1 case fails
  S4 hidden and symbol members stop counting       2 cases fail
  S5 an accessor member is a document member       2 cases fail
  S6 the prototype rule dropped                    7 cases fail
  S7 an array is a document again                  1 case fails
  S8 the descriptor reflection wrapper removed     0 -- UNREACHABLE

S1, S2 and S6 fail cases from ALL THREE suites, which is the composition
working: one guard, three sets of witnesses.

TWO ZEROS, INVESTIGATED, WITH DIFFERENT ANSWERS AGAIN.

S7's zero was a MISSING CASE and a real one. A bare array is refused by the
prototype rule, and a Proxy-dressed array is now refused by the Proxy test --
so nothing left reached the array line. But `Object.setPrototypeOf([],
Object.prototype)` is an ORDINARY ARRAY, no Proxy involved, wearing the
document prototype, and it still serializes as `[]`. I added it and S7 now
fails the case that owns it.

S8 is measured UNREACHABLE, and it became unreachable in this correction. The
descriptor read happens after the record is otherwise proved, so the only
value that could throw there was a descriptor-trapping Proxy -- which was my
own witness for it last round, and which the Proxy test now rejects long
before. I keep the wrapper for host exotica and because rule 4 in the module
header says translate every reflection, but IT EARNS NO WITNESS TODAY AND IS
NOT COUNTED AS A GUARD.


6. A NEW SUITE FOR THE PRIMITIVE ITSELF -- 6 CASES

`v12/test/worker_manager_records.test.mjs`. The two callers assert this rule
through their own error taxonomies; what neither can state is the primitive's
own contract, which is that THESE FUNCTIONS ANSWER -- answering never throws
and never runs the value. That is the property that makes them safe to share,
because a shared helper that can throw turns one caller's refusal into another
caller's crash.

  answering never throws and never runs the value
      ten hostile values x five entry points, with all thirteen Proxy traps
      and seven throwing accessors instrumented; asserts nothing ran and
      nothing threw, 50 combinations
  a Proxy is refused however plausibly it answers
      including one whose answers are all CORRECT, and both live and revoked
      reaching the same verdict by the same route
  the documents the contracts DO send are accepted
      because a proof that refuses everything satisfies every refusal case
      above and no contract at all
  an array is not a document, wearing any prototype
  the member proof counts what Object.keys hides
  a rejected value is named by shape and never by content
      eleven shapes, plus: a marked string never appears in any answer, member
      NAMES do appear because they are structure, and a member VALUE is never
      inspected once the shape holds

Both review regressions are retained unchanged.


7. GATES

  records (new)                6 / 6
  handshake                    28 / 28
  reconnect                    32 / 32
  profile                      14 / 14
  session                      18 / 18
  full v12 npm test            670 tests, 670 pass, 0 FAIL
  TMPDIR bracket               zero test-owned roots (the one entry is
                               node-compile-cache, Node's own)
  design models                64 / 66 / 24 / 74, all OK
  v11 pytest                   2980 passed; serial 52 passed
  codex-event-bridge           336 / 336
  acp-baton-bridge             55 / 55
  frozen vs product schema     byte-identical
  whitespace-damage check      clean

THE FULL v12 GATE IS GREEN. Every open review round across W4, W543, W641 and
W771 now passes; there is nothing left to attribute to another Work. I have
reported a non-zero failure count in every hand-back for days, so this one is
worth stating plainly.


8. STILL OPEN

Plan item 8: a future adapter built against this contract must be re-reviewed
against it. `v12/src/acp_session.mjs` and `tools/acp-baton-bridge` remain the
accepted 0-spike and the earlier v11 bridge, outside 1.0 scope.

Item 7 is discharged by this correction.

Carried from W4 and unaffected here: a Proxy session REFERENCE still runs four
get traps in `normalizeAgentSessionRef` and is accepted. That is the same class
of defect on a different operand, raised in W4's sixth correction for a ruling
because the axis is a signed-off module on every observation path. If it is
ruled in, this module is where the fix belongs.
