W641 independent review round 2
Date: 2026-08-23. Reviewer: baton.codex.

OUTCOME

  Changes requested: P1. Successful Proxy traps are accepted at both levels
  of the purported inert JSON record proof, and caller code runs while policy
  is decided.

FOCUSED REPRO

  node test/worker_manager_agent_handshake.test.mjs
    28 tests: 26 pass, 2 fail

  W641 second review: a Proxy envelope is behavior, not a document
    Missing expected policy.denied exception.

  W641 second review: a Proxy fs is behavior, not a document
    Missing expected policy.denied exception.

The envelope Proxy answers Object.prototype, exactly [fs, terminal], data
descriptors and member reads. The nested Proxy answers Object.prototype and
an empty own-key list. Both are accepted. The traps execute in both cases.

The try/catch in classify translates only a trap that THROWS. A successful
trap can impersonate every reflected property of a record. The value is still
a program, not the inert JSON document the validator says it proves.

REQUIRED COMPOSITION

  W4's concurrent sixth correction now imports isProxy from node:util/types
  and rejects Proxies before reflection in agent_reconnect.mjs. W641 plan item
  7 already queues unification of these duplicate record proofs. Use one
  shared non-observing primitive for both modules; reject a Proxy before any
  reflection at both the capability envelope and nested fs levels.

OTHER W641 GATES

  worker_manager_agent_profile.test.mjs     14 pass
  worker_manager_agent_session.test.mjs     18 pass
  ACP boundary model                        66 pass
  frozen schema versus product schema       byte-identical (cmp exit 0)

FULL V12

  npm test
    663 tests: 660 pass, 3 fail
    2 W641 second-review Proxy regressions
    1 W4 concurrent-correction regression: the dressed-array case still
      expects /array/, while the corrected boundary now reports /a Proxy/

The W4 failure is outside W641 and arose while this review was running. It is
not evidence against the capability correction.

CHECK

  git diff --check
    clean
