W2929 — item 3, SECOND SLICE: activation and runtime start
Signed off before it: review-2026-08-22T22-21-52Z.md (item 3a).
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-22.


0. THE NON-BLOCKING NOTE FIRST

The re-review is right that my case titled "a SEQUENTIAL exact reissue is
refused by the same marker" is intercepted by the optimistic `store.replay`
precheck and never reaches the closure marker's branch. The title claimed
branch evidence the case does not provide.

Retitled and rewritten to say exactly what it pins — the public refusal, with
the same bearer so nothing in the payload distinguishes the calls — and to
name which cases DO exercise the marker: the same-bearer concurrent case on
the replay side, the first-issue case on the commit side. Citing a case for
work another case does is a quiet way to overstate coverage.


1. WHAT THIS SLICE IS

`v12/src/worker_manager/attempts.mjs` — the dossier's "Runtime" bullets one
and two, plus the observation-axis rule. The ordering is the whole content:

  1. `assignment.activate` fixes and validates the assignment manifest
     BEFORE the first writable adapter call;
  2. runtime start commits `start-requested` BEFORE the adapter is called;
  3. reconciliation identifies by OPAQUE ID plus the full assignment/profile
     labels — zero permits a retry only after proven absence, one reattaches,
     mismatch or multiplicity cancels rather than starting another;
  4. observations advance only through the frozen axes, and `uncertain`
     never becomes `destroyed`.

STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED, and named rather than implied: cancellation ordering
(`session.cancel` first, then agent and runtime), output freeze, intake,
cleanup — the rest of item 3 — and ALL of item 4, the provider-neutral
agent-session profile, session/turn/event normalization and the adapter
CONTRACTS. The adapter here is an injected object with two methods; what a
conforming adapter must BE is item 4's to pin, and this slice does not
pretend to have pinned it.


2. THE FOUR RULES, AND WHY EACH IS ORDERED THAT WAY

ACTIVATION FIRST. The authority's live assignment is read and compared field
by field with the one the claim recorded. A stale, ended, refenced or
differently-participanted assignment is refused HERE, where nothing has been
started — after one writable call the same refusal would leave a runtime
nobody is authorized to own. The manifest is fixed ONCE: a second activation
naming a different assignment does not silently re-point the attempt.

RECORD BEFORE CALLING. `start-requested` is durable before the adapter is
touched. A manager that called first and recorded afterwards could crash in
between and restart with no trace that a runtime may exist — and the next
incarnation would start a second one. Recording first can only over-report,
which reconciliation resolves by LOOKING.

ZERO IS NOT ABSENCE. "The adapter reports nothing" and "nothing exists" are
different facts. A retry is permitted only when absence has been positively
proven; otherwise the attempt goes `uncertain` and waits. Starting a second
runtime for one assignment is the failure this entire ordering exists to
prevent, so the ambiguous case must cost a wait rather than a duplicate.

IDENTIFICATION IS BY LABELS. An id the adapter minted proves only that
something answers to it. A runtime carrying another assignment's labels is
somebody else's, and attaching to it would put two managers on one runtime.
Mismatch or multiplicity CANCELS: two runtimes under one assignment's labels
means something already went wrong, and a third would compound it.

UNCERTAINTY IS NOT AN OUTCOME. `uncertain` never becomes `destroyed`.
Destruction is a fact about the world, and inferring it from a failure to
look would let a manager report a cleaned-up runtime that is still executing
somebody's code. An axis does not go backwards either, and the ONE reset is
narrow and explicit — only reconciliation that has proven absence may take an
axis back, because only it knows nothing is owed.


3. MUTATION CHECK — seven

  M1  the adapter is called before the intent is recorded   1 failed
  M2  zero runtimes retries without proven absence          2 failed
  M3  multiplicity attaches to the first                    1 failed
  M4  labels ignored, the adapter's id is enough            1 failed
  M5  uncertain may become destroyed                        1 failed
  M6  activation does not read the live assignment          1 failed
  M7  an unactivated attempt may start                      1 failed

Restored: 13/13 focused, 295/295 for the whole gate.


4. A CASE OF MINE HAD TO BE CORRECTED, AND IT IS THE INTERESTING ONE

"Every declared value is reachable" walked the whole `execution_runtime` enum
in order — and that walk passes through `uncertain` straight into
`destroyed`, which the rule forbids. The case now skips that one step, says
WHY, and reaches `destroyed` from a state that is not uncertainty.

Writing the reachability case and the refusal case separately would have hid
this: the two rules meet exactly at that transition, and only walking the
enum found it.


5. REGRESSIONS — 13 new (295 total, 282 before)

Activation fixing the assignment; four stale/ended shapes each refused before
the adapter is reached with the attempt left unfixed; the manifest fixed
once. Start recorded before the adapter is called, observed from INSIDE the
adapter call; an unactivated attempt never reaching the adapter at all.
Exactly one matching runtime reattaching; zero waiting and only proven
absence retrying; multiplicity cancelling without attaching to either;
a mismatched id cancelling; three runtimes with wrong labels all ignored.
The frozen axes and values; `uncertain` never becoming `destroyed` on both
runtime axes; no backwards step, an inert repeat, and the narrow reset.


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       295 tests, 295 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2976 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        316 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN with no failure belonging to another Work.


7. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/attempts.mjs        new
  v12/test/worker_manager_attempts.test.mjs  new, 13 cases
  v12/test/worker_manager_offers.test.mjs    one case retitled and its claim
                                             corrected
