W4 / W2929 item 4ar — composition correction, round 2
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-23T21-08-54Z.md (one P1).
Items 4ah and 4ao remain OPEN RULINGS and are not decided here.


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  node --test test/worker_manager_refusal_taxonomy.test.mjs   8 pass, 1 fail

Exactly the additive review rows. The finding is correct.


2. THE BOUND WAS RIGHT AND THE RULER WAS WRONG

JavaScript `.length` counts UTF-16 CODE UNITS. JSON Schema `maxLength` counts
UNICODE CHARACTERS. The two agree exactly until a string leaves the BMP, and
then they silently do not: a provider session id of 512 astral characters has
a `.length` of 1024, so it VALIDATES under the frozen contract and was REFUSED
as `integrity.schema` by the hand-written proof that exists to be faithful to
that contract. 513 is invalid under both, which is why the defect only shows
at the boundary.

Item 4an set out to make this acceptance boundary faithful, and I made it
faithful in the wrong unit. I checked the NUMBER against the frozen schema and
not the MEASURE.

There is one ruler now, `withinCharacters` in `contracts.mjs`, exported as
`withinFrozenLength` for the boundaries that need it. It is fast and exact
together: a code point is never MORE than one code unit, so a string short
enough in code units is short enough in characters and the iteration is
skipped entirely; only a string that fails the cheap test is counted, and the
count stops as soon as it passes the limit.


3. THE SAME UNIT, AT THE TWO OTHER PLACES ONE IS USED

Applying it only where the review found it would have been the same mistake
this pass keeps correcting, so I looked for every ruler.

  a) THE FROZEN opaqueId LIMIT. Corrected, and MEASURED AS EQUIVALENT FOR THE
     VERDICT: the `opaqueId` grammar admits only ASCII, so no astral string is
     accepted whichever unit the length test counts in. What the wrong unit
     DID produce was a FALSE DIAGNOSTIC -- "is 162 characters" about an
     81-character string. Reported as equivalent for acceptance rather than
     counted as a guard, and corrected anyway, because a rule measured in the
     wrong unit at one of two sites is exactly the shape this manager keeps
     finding.

  b) THE DIAGNOSTIC BOUND. `bounded` sliced by code unit, which can CUT A
     SURROGATE PAIR IN HALF and put a lone surrogate into a message that may
     be retained. No acceptance decision depends on it and it produces a
     MALFORMED STRING, which is worth fixing on its own terms. It slices by
     character now.


4. SOMETHING MY OWN FIRST DRAFT GOT WRONG, KEPT AS AN ASSERTION

I wrote a case row expecting `e` + a combining acute + `x` to fit in a limit of
two, reasoning about what renders as one glyph. `maxLength` counts CODE
POINTS, not graphemes: that string is three characters and does not fit. The
row asserts three now, with the reason written beside it, because the
contract's unit is the one that decides and not the one that looks right.


5. MUTATIONS -- SEVEN, ALL WITNESSED

  W1 the provider bound measures code units again     2 cases fail
  W2 the fast path answers for every string           2 cases fail
  W3 the counter never stops early                    7 cases fail
  W4 the name is sliced by code unit again            1 case fails
  W5 the opaque-id length bound removed               3 cases fail
  W6 withinFrozenLength accepts a non-string          1 case fails
  W7 the provider bound removed                       1 case fails

W2 is the one worth naming: it keeps the FAST PATH and deletes the exact one,
which is the plausible way this optimisation gets broken later. It fails the
same two cases as W1, which is right -- the fast path alone IS the old defect.


6. THE REGRESSION ADDED IS ABOUT THE RULER, AT EVERY PLACE ONE IS USED

`one ruler, and it is the frozen contract's`. The finding was not that 512 was
compared wrongly; it was that a hand-written proof of a frozen bound measured
in a different unit from the contract it stands in for. So the case covers all
three rulers:

  - the opaqueId limit: 160 ASCII accepted, 161 refused FOR LENGTH, and 80
    astral characters refused FOR GRAMMAR, so the two reasons stay distinct
  - the shared ruler at the exact boundary: ASCII and astral, at the limit and
    one over, plus two lone surrogates, plus the combining sequence in
    section 4, plus a non-string
  - the diagnostic ruler: a bounded name of a 1000-astral string carries no
    lone surrogate and no replacement character, and is still within the
    character bound

The reviewer's additive 512/513 astral rows are retained in the section 3.1
boundary-pair case, unchanged.


7. GATES

  refusal taxonomy             10 / 10
  session axis                 16 / 16
  turn                         50 / 50
  reconnect                    32 / 32
  posture slots                25 / 25
  full v12 npm test            683 tests, 683 pass, 0 FAIL
  TMPDIR bracket               zero test-owned roots (the one entry is
                               node-compile-cache, Node's own)
  design models                64 / 66 / 24 / 74, all OK
  v11 pytest                   2980 passed; serial 52 passed
  codex-event-bridge           336 / 336
  acp-baton-bridge             55 / 55
  whitespace-damage check      clean


8. TRACKING, AND THE OPEN RULINGS

The review's renumbering is accepted as recorded: the completed P2 is 4aq and
4ao stays with the open session-container ruling alongside 4ah. This
correction is item 4ar.

4ah and 4ao are Slawomir's and I have not decided them. Unchanged by this
round: the MEMBER half is done either way -- and now measured in the frozen
contract's own unit, which is one more reason the member half can be
considered settled -- so what remains is purely the CONTAINER, with one
normalizer to change rather than two.
