W2929 — item 3a, third correction round
Review: review-2026-08-22T22-14-59Z.md, one [P1].
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-22.


0. WHAT THE REVIEW ACCEPTED

Manager-owned TTL processing, the authority binding in the issue signature,
and the concurrent-mismatch refusal. This round is the one remaining P1.


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  cd v12 && npm test    280 tests, 279 passed, 1 failed


2. [P1] PROVENANCE WAS INFERRED FROM THE PAYLOAD

The correction compared the returned durable verifier with the one this
caller's bearer derives. INEQUALITY PROVES A LOSS; EQUALITY PROVES NOTHING.
Two exact issuers can receive the same injected bearer — the inner one
commits, the outer `transact` replays that record, the comparison agrees, and
the transaction LOSER reports success.

That makes effectively-once depend on a probabilistic property of the secret
source. The journal decides effectively-once; a payload never does.

This is the third round on the same race, and the shape of my error each time
is worth naming: I keep answering "did this call win?" with evidence that is
NEAR the answer rather than the answer. First a check placed before the
decision, then a check that reads what the decision produced. The decision
itself is the only thing that knows.

CORRECTED: `transact` runs the action only when it did NOT replay, so the
action setting a flag IS the transaction boundary reporting which of the two
happened. Nothing about the payload is consulted for provenance.

The verifier comparison stays, with a DIFFERENT job and a different refusal:
if this call did commit, the row it wrote must derive from the bearer it
minted. That is an invariant about a store defect, not a provenance decision,
and returning a secret that does not open the offer it names would be the
worst kind of answer.


3. MUTATION CHECK — three

  M1  provenance inferred from the payload again
        1 failed: the reviewer's same-bearer race
  M2  the marker always reports a commit
        2 failed: the reviewer's case and the loser-emits-nothing case
  M3  the marker always reports a replay
        38 failed — every path that issues an offer at all

M3's breadth is the point rather than noise: the marker is now load-bearing
for every issue, which is what "the transaction boundary decides" means.


4. REGRESSIONS — 43 (41 before; the reviewer's retained)

Added two, and they are the two directions a single-sided case would miss:

  - a SEQUENTIAL exact reissue refused by the same marker, driven with the
    SAME bearer so nothing about the payload distinguishes the second call
    from the first — one boundary, both orders, neither reading the payload;
  - a genuinely first issue NOT refused as a replay, including a second offer
    for another Work. A too-eager marker would satisfy every refusal case
    above, so the boundary needs its positive direction pinned too.


5. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       282 tests, 282 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2976 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        316 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN with no failure belonging to another Work.


6. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

The rest of item 3 — assignment activation, runtime start and reconciliation,
the observation axes, cancellation, output freeze, intake and cleanup — and
all of item 4.


7. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/offers.mjs        the commit marker decides
                                           provenance; the verifier
                                           comparison keeps a separate job
  v12/test/worker_manager_offers.test.mjs  +2 cases
