W2929 / current authority W4 — turn slice, THIRD correction
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-23T14-47-38Z.md (three P1, one P2).


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  cd v12 && npm test
    tests 498, pass 492, fail 6

The six additive regressions were the only failures, exactly as reported.
Each failed for the stated reason:

  :673 second same-prompt turn   refused.operation-collision (store.mjs:224)
  :693 closed epoch             accepted; a turn row was written
  :713 provider-session-b       accepted and sealed against ...-a
  :734 policyFailures=null      raw TypeError (agent_turn.mjs:267)
  :748 permitted='not-json'     raw SyntaxError (agent_turn.mjs:423)
  :767 exact replay             integrity.secret-leak (agent_turn.mjs:331)

All four findings are correct. Nothing in this review is disputed.


2. P1 — CONTENT-DERIVED TURN IDENTITY

The identity was (attempt, posture, epoch, prompt_digest). Equal prompt bytes
are not the same act, so a second legitimate turn in one epoch reached the
first turn's operation id.

The added component is the MANAGER-OWNED supervision window. §5.1 mints a
deadline per supervised turn, and (started_at, deadline_at) is the window that
deadline bounds. It carries no prompt content, it is stable across retry
because a retry replays the window it was given, and it is the manager's, so a
caller cannot make two turns collide by repeating itself.

ended_at is deliberately EXCLUDED. The window is what the manager ALLOCATED;
the end instant is what it later OBSERVED. Folding an observation into an
identity would mint a second turn document for a retry that merely reported a
different end. Under one window a changed end keeps the identity and changes
the signature, so it collides — which is what "the same turn, described
differently" should answer. An added case drives exactly that.

The window is a COMPONENT, not the whole identity, and carries no uniqueness
rule of its own. Two turns may legitimately share a window and differ by
prompt; the already-accepted case at :645 does exactly that. Refusing it would
have been inventing a serialization §5 does not state, so it was not done, and
the reasoning sits beside the function.


3. P1 — ADMISSION PROVED ROW PRESENCE, NOT THE SESSION

`admitTurn` now loads state AND provider_session_id and binds both.

TURN_ADMITTING_SESSION_STATES is a closed set named POSITIVELY — ready,
prompting, turn-ended, cancel-requested, agent-quiescent — rather than by
excluding today's two bad values. A list of states where a turn may NOT settle
is a list a newly frozen state joins silently and wrongly. not-started and
initializing are out because no prompt has been issued; unknown and closed are
out because §3.3 makes both terminal.

This is STRICTER THAN THE REVIEW ASKED, which asked only that a terminal or
ambiguous epoch admit no new turn. It is raised here rather than left to be
discovered: nothing in this slice moves a session out of `not-started` yet, so
the state transitions a later slice adds must reach an admitting state before
recording a turn. The partition is driven exhaustively against the frozen
sessionState enum read from the placed schema, in BOTH directions, so a new
frozen state fails the case rather than passing silently.

The provider session reference must AGREE exactly. An omitted reference is
not agreement either: the sealed record would have carried null for an epoch
that durably holds one, and §3.1 says the reference labels evidence.


4. P1 — CURRENT STATE DECIDED BEFORE THE IMMUTABLE ANSWER

Both admission and the durable-secret scan moved INSIDE `store.transact`'s
action. The journal resolves identity and signature first, so an exact retry
replays and a changed one collides without either check running.

That is one move answering two findings. The secret scan reads the EPHEMERAL
registry as it stands right now: run ahead of the journal, ordinary durable
text that was benign when committed could later be registered as a bearer and
start refusing an exact replay — writing nothing, returning no bearer-bearing
field, and hiding an immutable answer whose bytes had not changed. Admission
reads mutable session state: a turn that settled legitimately and a session
that closed afterwards are both true, and the retry is owed the first one.

A genuinely new write still refuses in both cases. Two added regressions hold
the replay-after-close direction and the exhaustive state partition; the
reviewer's :767 holds the secret-liveness direction.


5. P2 — MALFORMED INPUT AND SUMMARY

`requirePolicyFailureList` is extracted from `selectTurnOutcome` and called by
`recordTurn` BEFORE `.map`, so the collection shape is proved before anything
iterates it.

`permitsDisposition` parses the retained summary inside an integrity wrapper.
A summary that cannot even be COMPARED with the sealed record has already
diverged from it, which is the same integrity failure a comparable-but-
different summary reports — so it reports as that pair, not as whichever error
the parser reached first.


6. MUTATIONS — EIGHT, SEVEN WITNESSED, ONE MEASURED

  M1 identity drops the supervision window          7 cases fail
  M2 recordTurn stops proving the collection        3 cases fail
  M3 admission stops reading the session state      5 cases fail
  M4 admission stops binding the provider session   5 cases fail
  M5 current state decides before the journal       5 cases fail
  M6 the retained summary is parsed raw again       3 cases fail
  M7 the session reference is taken on trust        0 cases fail  MASKED
  M8 the observed end instant joins the identity    3 cases fail

M7 is MEASURED AS MASKED and is said rather than implied. Removing
`turnSessionRef` leaves every malformed-reference case still refusing with the
same closed pair, because the reference is a member of the frozen turnRecord
and the record-level validation rejects it. It is kept because the reference
now reaches the IDENTITY digest and the durable body before any row is read,
and a boundary whose one input shape is only implied by a check further down
is one the next reader has to reconstruct. It is not counted as a guard, and
its case asserts the BEHAVIOUR — that no caller-supplied shape escapes the
closed taxonomy — rather than that one line.


7. REGRESSIONS — 43 (37 before, including the reviewer's six)

Six of mine:

  the supervision window identifies the turn, is stable under repetition, and
    moves on EITHER half of the manager-owned window
  a re-reported end instant COLLIDES rather than minting a second turn
  every frozen session state admits a turn or refuses one, exhaustively and in
    both directions, driven off the placed schema's own enum
  a turn committed before the epoch closed still replays
  an omitted provider session is still a disagreement, and the agreeing
    reference is sealed into the record
  a malformed session reference reports a closed pair, seven shapes


8. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       504 tests, 504 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2977 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        336 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN with no failure belonging to another Work.

The TMPDIR bracket was /tmp/w4-tmpdir-MGNB12; it retained only Node's own
`node-compile-cache` and no test-owned root. It is left in place for the
operator rather than removed by a destructive shell command. The 435 stale
/tmp/v12-manager-* roots predate this turn (all mtime 2026-08-22 15:26) and
are likewise left untouched.


9. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

Event normalization, the runtime/agent adapter CONTRACTS, and the
re-identification gate after transport ambiguity.


10. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_turn.mjs          manager-owned supervision
                                                 window in the identity;
                                                 admission binds session state
                                                 and provider reference;
                                                 admission and the secret scan
                                                 moved inside the journalled
                                                 transaction; both malformed
                                                 shapes report closed pairs
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_turn.test.mjs    +6 cases; no existing
                                                 assertion edited or weakened
