W4 / W2929 item 4ae — fifth reconnect correction
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-23T19-42-22Z.md (one P2, two edges).


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  node --test test/worker_manager_agent_reconnect.test.mjs   25 pass, 2 fail

Exactly the two additive review regressions. The finding is correct.


2. EDGE ONE: THE COMMENT CLEARED THE OPERATION THAT WAS FAILING

`describe` has said for two rounds that "`typeof` and `Array.isArray` invoke
nothing". That is TRUE and it is not the property that matters. Array
classification follows a Proxy to its target, so `Array.isArray` THROWS on a
revoked Proxy -- and it sat outside the translated boundary in both refusal
paths, the envelope and the member value, leaking a raw TypeError at the exact
moment the boundary had already decided to refuse.

So the single operation still outside the translation was the one every
comment in the file had explicitly cleared. I have now been told four times
that a refusal must not run what it refuses, and I read that as being about
executing CALLER CODE. This one runs no caller code and fails anyway.

WHAT I AM TAKING FROM IT: "runs no user code" is not "cannot fail", and my
comments were reasoning about the wrong property. Every classification this
boundary performs now happens inside ONE guarded helper, so the next one is
inside the translation by construction rather than because someone remembered.
`typeof` is the only operation named as exempt, because it is the only one
that genuinely cannot throw.


3. EDGE TWO: THE REFUSAL INTERVIEWED THE VALUE THAT WAS THROWN AT IT

`ownTurnInFlight` caught a reflection failure and then interpolated
`failure.message`. JavaScript permits throwing ANY value, so that is a
property read on an object the caller chose: an accessor there runs the
caller's code INSIDE the refusal, and its own throw replaces the closed pair
with an arbitrary Error.

The catch takes no binding now and the message is the manager's own text, the
same text whatever was thrown. This is the same sentence as the round-3
diagnostic finding -- `JSON.stringify` on a rejected value -- at the one place
where the value arrives by being thrown rather than by being passed.


4. SOMETHING THE REVIEW DID NOT ASK FOR, AND WHY I DID IT ANYWAY

Having array classification in the snapshot made a second hole visible:
`isPlainRecord` decided "is this a document" from the PROTOTYPE alone, and a
Proxy over an array whose `getPrototypeOf` trap answers `Object.prototype`
passes that test. An array envelope then became a valid options document.

One line, `if (snapshot.array) return false`, and it tests the rule this
envelope has always stated rather than inferring it from a prototype a Proxy
is free to lie about. Reported here rather than folded in silently, because it
is a behavior change beyond the review's two edges.


5. MUTATIONS -- FIVE, ALL WITNESSED

  N1 array classification back outside the translation   1 case fails
  N2 the refusal reads the thrown value again           2 cases fail
  N3 an array proxy is a document again                 1 case fails
  N4 the reflection wrapper removed entirely            5 cases fail
  N5 the descriptor wrapper removed                     3 cases fail

N1 fails only the review's own case, which is correct -- that case owns the
edge and my added cases own the rules around it.

MY FIRST N1 DID NOT PARSE. I built it by rewriting the try block and produced
a syntax error, which `node --test` would have reported as a whole-file
failure that looks like a witness. I check `node --check` on every mutated
file before running the suite for exactly this reason; the malformed attempt
was discarded and N1 re-run as the literal pre-fix shape. That is the second
time this week a mutation result was a fact about my instrument.


6. REGRESSIONS ADDED -- 2, BOTH SHAPED AS PROPERTIES

  no refusal interviews the value that was thrown
      All THREE reflection traps this boundary can hit -- getPrototypeOf on
      the envelope, getOwnPropertyDescriptor on the envelope, getPrototypeOf
      on the member value -- each throwing an object whose message, name,
      stack, code, toString and valueOf are ALL throwing getters. Asserts the
      closed pair, that no getter ran, and that the axis did not move.
      The review found this at one catch; the rule is about every catch.

  an array is not a document however it is dressed
      A bare array and a Proxy over an array wearing Object.prototype, each
      as the envelope AND as the member value. Asserts the closed pair, that
      the diagnostic says "an array", and that the axis did not move.

Both review regressions are retained unchanged, and no earlier assertion in
the file was edited or weakened.


7. GATES

  reconnect                        29 / 29
  session axis                     16 / 16
  turn                             50 / 50
  posture slots                    25 / 25
  full v12 npm test                656 tests, 654 pass, 2 fail
  TMPDIR bracket over that run     zero test-owned roots (the one entry is
                                   node-compile-cache, Node's own)
  design models                    64 / 66 / 24 / 74, all OK
  v11 pytest                       2980 passed; serial 52 passed
  codex-event-bridge               336 / 336
  acp-baton-bridge                 55 / 55
  whitespace-damage check          clean

BOTH REMAINING v12 FAILURES ARE W641's -- "structural equality is equality of
JSON documents" and "an unsupported value keeps the closed refusal taxonomy",
in the handshake suite, from W641's own open review round. Neither is touched
here. W543's two and W771's two are gone because those Works fixed them.


8. STILL UNIMPLEMENTED IN W4

The runtime and agent adapter contracts, and the composition of the posture
lifecycle W771 corrected into the W4 boundary (W771 plan item 5, and W151 §9
next-epoch enforcement, both still deferred).
