W2929 — the agent-session slice, second correction
Review: review-2026-08-23T02-51-57Z.md, one [P1].
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-23.


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  cd v12 && npm test    459 tests, 458 passed, 1 failed

The reviewer's additive regression is the only failure. The finding is
correct.


2. THE FINDING, AND WHERE I HAD ALREADY WRITTEN THE ANSWER

[P1] A FOREIGN PARTICIPANT'S AUTHORITY SESSION OPENED EXECUTION.
`openAgentSession` checked only that the handle could ANSWER — that it had
`assignmentOf` — and that projection is WORK-SCOPED. A session genuinely
minted for `poc.gemini` returns the same live assignment, whose participant is
`poc.claude`, and the four-part comparison then proves the projection and the
attempt agree while proving nothing about WHO ASKED.

THE ACTIVATION SLICE ALREADY CARRIES THIS EXACT LESSON, in a comment I wrote:
"the claim says which assignment this attempt won, the binding says who is
asking" — two different rules, and I re-derived only one of them here. Last
round I recorded that a structural test can encode a misunderstanding; this
round the misunderstanding was mine again, in the module I had just corrected
for the neighbouring half of the same rule.

CORRECTED. The handle's participant is compared against the attempt's fixed
assignment participant before anything is written, refused as
`refused.precondition` per the pair the review proposes, and a foreign or
missing binding inserts nothing.


3. ONE MEASUREMENT RECORDED RATHER THAN CLAIMED

I read the binding into a local and called it SNAPSHOTTED, with the comment
that a getter answering differently afterwards is the alias the authority's
own sessions refuse.

MEASURED: THE LOCAL IS EQUIVALENT. A mutation that reads `session.participant`
inline instead changes nothing reachable, because the value is used exactly
ONCE on the success path and what lands in the durable row comes from the
ATTEMPT, never from the handle. The local is kept — the single read stays
visible, and the next edit that wanted this value would otherwise reach for
the getter again — but the comment now says that instead of implying a guard,
and the case that drives a mutating getter is titled for what it pins: one
read, and the stored value's source.


4. ONE SHADOWED IDENTIFIER, CAUGHT BEFORE IT COULD MATTER

My first version named the local `binding`, which shadows the POSTURE binding
already in scope — inside the one block where the two are easiest to confuse.
Renamed to `actor`, with the reason beside it.


5. MUTATION CHECK — three, two witnessed and one measured

  C1  the handle's binding is not compared            1 failed
  C3  consent also demands a handle                   5 failed

  C2  the binding is read inline rather than snapshotted  0 failed

C3 is the other direction, and it matters: a consent session exists BEFORE any
claim, so requiring a handle for it would be requiring proof of something that
does not exist yet. A case of mine opens a consent session with a null handle.

Restored: 18/18 focused, 461/461 for the whole gate.


6. REGRESSIONS — 18 (16 before, including the reviewer's one)

Plus two of mine: a mutating participant getter not getting past, with the
stored participant coming from the attempt; and a consent session needing no
authority handle at all.


7. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       461 tests, 461 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:
    assignment state machine               64 passed
    ACP agent boundary                     56 passed, 208 subtests
    worker runtime conformance             74 passed, 694 subtests
    worker-control API and manifests       24 passed, 47 subtests
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2976 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        316 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN with no failure belonging to another Work.


8. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

Turns and their deadlines, event normalization, the adapter CONTRACTS, and the
re-identification gate after transport ambiguity.


9. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_session.mjs           the handle's participant
                                                     binding, compared before
                                                     anything is written
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_session.test.mjs     +2 cases
