W2929 — the intake/cleanup slice, second correction
Review: review-2026-08-23T01-43-26Z.md, two [P1].
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-23.


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  cd v12 && npm test    425 tests, 423 passed, 2 failed

The two additive review regressions are the only failures. Both findings
correct.


2. THE SAME ORDERING RULE, IN A FOURTH MODULE

[P1] EXACT INTAKE REPLAY AND COLLISION WERE HIDDEN BY CURRENT OUTPUT STATE.
`recordIntake` read the `outputs` row and refused its absence before it ever
reached the journal. But once a decision has committed, the intake row OWNS
the exact result digest and keeps the retained manifest alive — so dropping
the now-redundant output index turned an exact retry into a precondition
failure and hid a changed one instead of colliding.

THIS IS THE FOURTH TIME. `ControlStore.replay`, `observe`, `recordFrozenResult`
and now `recordIntake`. Each time the fix was "resolve the durable identity
before consulting today's state", and each time I wrote the next module with
the precondition first.

CORRECTED, and the shape of the fix is what makes it hold: an existing
decision already NAMES its material, so the output index is consulted ONLY
when there is no decision to replay — which is exactly the case in which
nothing can be hidden by requiring it. The sealed-output precondition is
untouched for a genuinely new decision.


3. A FOREIGN KEY PROVES EXISTENCE, NOT IDENTITY

[P1] THE LOADER DID NOT RE-BIND ITS ROW TO THE COMMITTED OPERATION. `intakeOf`
validated the four assignment fields and returned every other column as
trusted. The new foreign key proves that SOME retained manifest exists; it
does not prove this is the result the decision COMMITTED. Pointing the row at
a second, individually valid retained result passed the key, the assignment
check, cleanup, and the operation identity derived from it.

THE JOURNAL IS THE INDEPENDENT WITNESS, and it is available even when the
current `outputs` index is not. The row's own columns are reassembled into the
exact durable record, its signature recomputed, and compared against the
committed operation. Writer and reader build that record in ONE place, so the
signature that commits a decision and the signature that authenticates the
stored row are the same computation rather than two that agree today.

A signature mismatch is re-classified as `integrity.digest` rather than
surfaced as `refused.operation-collision`: this is not a caller reusing an
identity, it is a ROW disagreeing with the decision its own operation
committed, and the collision code carries a portable meaning belonging to
something else.


4. MUTATION CHECK — five, four witnessed and one measured

  X1  the output index before the committed decision  2 failed
  X2  the row is not authenticated by the journal     2 failed
  X3  a row with no committed decision passes         1 failed
  X5  BOTH the authentication and the typed load
      removed together                                3 failed

  X4  the named manifest is not validated as a result 0 failed

X4 IS MASKED, NOT UNCOVERED, and the measurement is the point. TWO independent
guards refuse a decision naming a non-result manifest: the signature
authentication catches the changed digest, and the typed load catches the
wrong kind. Removing either alone leaves the other covering it, and only X5 —
removing both — makes the case fail.

So the typed load the review asked for is kept and is NOT counted as
witnessed coverage, and the case that drives it is titled "TWICE OVER" with
the measurement written beside it. A case covered by two guards is not a case
covered twice as well; it is a case whose mutation must remove both.

Restored: 29/29 focused, 428/428 for the whole gate.


5. REGRESSIONS — 29 (26 before, including the reviewer's two)

Plus three of mine: a CHANGED decision colliding after the output index is
gone — the other side of the reviewer's exact-retry case; an intake row with
no committed decision behind it; and a decision naming a non-result manifest,
measured as above.


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       428 tests, 428 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:
    assignment state machine               64 passed
    ACP agent boundary                     56 passed, 208 subtests
    worker runtime conformance             74 passed, 694 subtests
    worker-control API and manifests       24 passed, 47 subtests
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2976 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        316 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN with no failure belonging to another Work.


7. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

All of item 4, and the four things this manager deliberately refuses to
decide: certified evidence of runtime absence, what a conforming agent or
runtime adapter must be, a pinned discard policy, and the quarantine manifest
for material with no frozen result.


8. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/intake.mjs          the committed decision resolved
                                             before today's output index; the
                                             row authenticated against its own
                                             journalled signature; one place
                                             builds the durable record
  v12/test/worker_manager_intake.test.mjs    +3 cases
