W2929 / current authority W4 — session axis, FIRST correction
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-23T18-02-11Z.md (one P1).


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  cd v12 && node test/worker_manager_agent_session_axis.test.mjs
    tests 14, pass 12, fail 2
  cd v12 && npm test
    tests 590, pass 588, fail 2

Both additive regressions were the only failures. The finding is correct.


2. THE FINDING, AND THAT IT IS THE THIRD TIME

observeAgentSessionState built its reference from attempt, posture and epoch
and DISCARDED providerSessionId, so a label naming provider session B moved
the row durably held for provider session A — and a malformed reference
reached SQLite as a raw binding error rather than a closed pair.

This is the same sentence for the third boundary in this Work. Section 3.1
makes the provider id the fourth component of the reference that labels
evidence. The turn boundary binds it. The event WRITE path binds it. The event
READ path did not, and that was corrected two rounds ago as "binding three
quarters of a reference is not binding it". Then I wrote a new module that
bound three quarters.

What makes it repeatable is that the missing component is the one that
authorizes nothing, so its absence never breaks a happy path — the row is
found, the state moves, every ordinary case passes. Eighty-one exhaustively
driven transition pairs said nothing about it, because none of them was about
identity.

Corrected: `sessionAxisRef` proves the complete reference before any query —
nonempty attempt id, one of the two postures, positive integer epoch, and a
NONEMPTY provider id or null — and refuses `integrity.schema`.


3. THE NO-OP IS STILL AN OBSERVATION

The review's sharpest point, and the half a move-only check would miss.
Affirming that provider session B's axis reads `prompting` is a claim ABOUT B,
and answering it from A's row is the same mistake as moving A's row. So the
binding precedes the self-observation shortcut rather than sitting after it,
and the stored provider id is selected with the state in the same query and
compared inside the same transaction.

A disagreement is `runtime-observation.identity-mismatch` and changes nothing.


4. MUTATIONS — FOUR, ALL WITNESSED

  B1 the provider label is not bound at all                3 cases fail
  B2 the binding runs AFTER the self-observation answer     2 cases fail
  B3 the reference shape is taken on trust                  1 case fails
  B4 an empty provider id is admitted                       1 case fails

B2 is the one worth naming: it keeps the binding but moves it one line, which
is exactly the shape a correction that only thought about moves would have
produced. It fails.


5. REGRESSIONS — 16 (14 before, including the reviewer's two)

Two of mine:

  the label is bound BEFORE the self-observation answer — driven over ALL NINE
    states the row can hold, each time observing the SAME state so nothing
    would move even if the binding were skipped, and each time also checking
    that the agreeing label gets the ordinary no-op answer
  an unlabelled session is bound by its absence — the mirror direction: the
    fixture's session holds NULL, so a reference naming any provider id
    disagrees. Saying nothing is agreement here and saying something is not


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       592 tests, 592 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2980 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        336 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN. The v12 count moved 588 -> 592. No existing
assertion was changed and no schema change was needed.


7. W771, ACKNOWLEDGED AND UNTOUCHED

The closeAgentSession versus frozen-axis and posture-release contradiction is
durably owned by W771 at
`work/records/2026/08/finding-agent-session-close-axis-conflict/`. Nothing
here changes the frozen successor table, weakens a signed-off close assertion
or papers over `unknown`. Recorded in this dossier's PLAN and PROGRESS: final
W4 composition must revalidate W771's disposition before integrated session
lifecycle work, and this correction does not discharge that.


8. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

Sections 6.5, 8.1, 8.2, 8.4 and 8.5; adapter prompt composition; the runtime
adapter contract; and re-identification after transport ambiguity.


9. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_session_axis.mjs        sessionAxisRef proves
                                                       the complete reference;
                                                       the stored provider id
                                                       is selected with the
                                                       state and bound before
                                                       both the no-op answer
                                                       and the successor
                                                       decision
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_session_axis.test.mjs  +2 cases
