W4 — cut A complete: the three corrections and the ruled validator
Date: 2026-08-24. Implementer: baton.claude.
Review answered: review-2026-08-24T09-56-54Z.md (two P1, one P2) plus the
acceptance gap it named: PLAN items 4bh and 4bi.


1. ALL THREE REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

  the hostile metaclass          the caller's AssertionError escaped in place
                                 of the closed refusal, after recording that
                                 the metaclass RAN
  the mutable pairing            a caller opened `policy` and immediately built
                                 a supposedly closed policy/caller-invented
                                 refusal
  escaping past the bound        1,933 characters from four astral names under
                                 a rule that promises under five hundred

All three are closed and the reviewer's three regressions are retained
unchanged.


2. [P1] NAMING A TYPE RAN THE CALLER'S METACLASS

A class is an instance of its METACLASS, so `type(value).__name__` is ordinary
attribute dispatch and a caller-controlled metaclass can run or raise from it.
The one helper whose entire job is to describe a rejected value WITHOUT running
it was doing exactly that.

`type.__getattribute__` is the default implementation, so calling it directly
skips a metaclass override. That closes the reported shape -- and probing my own
correction found TWO MORE it does not close, because a metaclass may define
`__name__` as a DESCRIPTOR: one that raises, and one that answers something that
is not text. Both were mutations with no witness until I wrote the case. A type
that will not name itself is now described by that fact.


3. [P1] A CLOSED SET A CALLER CAN OPEN IS NOT CLOSED

`ERROR_CODES` was one public mutable dict and the check consulted that same
object. The review allowed either an immutable export or a private immutable
value; the regression's mechanics require the second, so `_PAIRING` is private
and frozen all the way down and `ERROR_CODES` remains the readable vocabulary.

THE RESIDUAL RISK OF THAT SHAPE IS NAMED RATHER THAN LEFT: two values can
drift, and a caller reading the public one would believe something the boundary
does not enforce. A case asserts they agree.

And probing again: the reviewer's regression opens a CODE. Opening a whole
CATEGORY was a separate mutation with no witness, because a check that reads
the public value for categories and the private one for codes passes every case
that only opens a code. Both halves are covered now.


4. [P2] A BOUNDED OPERATION AND A BOUNDED OUTPUT ARE TWO PROPERTIES

The bound was applied to the INPUT of the escaper and `ascii()` expands an
astral character to ten. Both now: the input is cut first, so the escaper never
walks an unbounded string, and the RESULT is cut again, so the message is
bounded in the unit it promises.


5. THE RULED VALIDATOR -- AND WHAT PROVISIONING ACTUALLY REQUIRED

Item 4bh: pin jsonschema 4.26.0 with its complete Python 3.13 closure in the
hash-locked offline build; options B and C rejected. Done, and the closure
measured rather than assumed -- FIVE distributions, not the six the older
version needed:

  jsonschema 4.26.0            jsonschema-specifications 2025.9.1
  referencing 0.37.0           attrs 26.1.0
  rpds-py 2026.6.3             <- the one compiled artifact, cp313 manylinux

Every hash was computed FROM THE ARTIFACT, not copied from an index page.

THE WHEELHOUSE MOVED, and the reason is a measurement: the system wheelhouse
this distribution used to resolve from holds two artifacts and IS NOT WRITABLE.
So `WHEELHOUSE` now defaults inside the distribution, which is where a
self-contained distribution's offline artifacts belong.

WHETHER THOSE 3.2 MB OF WHEELS ARE COMMITTED IS RAISED, NOT ANSWERED. The tree
carries essentially no binary artifacts today, and adding third-party wheels
including a compiled extension is a repository-shape decision for the reviewer.
The gate works either way, because the wheelhouse is one variable.

The library decides the CONTRACT and this package decides the DIAGNOSTIC.
`jsonschema` renders the rejected instance into its messages -- which is what
makes its errors useful and exactly what this boundary may not do -- so a
refusal is built from the failing KEYWORD and PATH plus this package's own
bounded rendering. `error.message` is never used, and a case drives a
one-million-character value through to prove it.

AND OWNERSHIP RUNS FIRST. The validator only ever walks exact built-ins, so it
is never the thing deciding whether a `__getitem__` override is admissible.
Measured by counting reads on a shifting subclass: zero.

ONE THING MY OWN CASE FOUND, not a review: this schema's top level is a `oneOf`
over seventeen message shapes, so a fault that stopped at the outer error said
"the document breaks oneOf" and told a caller NOTHING. Combinators are followed
into their sub-errors now, bounded in depth, picking the branch that got
furthest into the document -- and the COUNT sees through them too, or "and N
more" would have said zero for the document that needs it most.

A second thing the same case found: my first accepted-document fixture was
rejected by the schema, so the accept-path case SKIPPED. A skipped accept path
is the silent-acceptance weakness I have been caught on before. The fixture is
a real `control.error` envelope now, read out of the schema, and the accept path
genuinely runs.


6. [4bi] THE AUTHORIZED TEST MIGRATION

Three authority cases asserted the DISTRIBUTION's dependency set was empty. That
stopped being true the moment the ruled dependency landed, and a case asserting
a superseded state argues for the old answer every run.

  the authority's import scan   SCOPED to the authority slice. The reach scan
                                stays distribution-wide, because "nothing opens
                                a v11 store or reads a dossier" is both slices'
                                property.
  "pins no validator"           replaced by a scan of the authority's own
                                SOURCE. A file that does not mention a library
                                and a slice that does not reach for one are
                                different facts, and only the second matters.
  "the lock is empty"           replaced by "the lock says WHOSE its pins are".
                                A dependency nobody has attributed is one both
                                slices inherit by default.

And the manager got its own exact allowlist: one import name, reached from ONE
module, with the lock pinning five distributions and the wheelhouse holding an
artifact for every one of them whose hash is re-measured from the file.

My own superseded class went too. `TheValidatorSeamIsAbsentAndSaysSo` was
honest while the question was open and became wrong when it was answered.


7. MUTATIONS -- NINETEEN, SIXTEEN WITNESSED, THREE MEASURED EQUIVALENT

  N1 the type name read through the metaclass    1 case
  N2 a type that will not name itself escapes    1
  N3 a non-text type name is rendered            1
  N4 the check reads the public pairing          1
  N5 the category check reads the public one     1
  N6 the escaped form is not bounded             1
  N7 the escaper walks the unbounded input       0 -- EQUIVALENT for output
  V1 the library prose is forwarded              1
  V2 a combinator is not followed                2
  V3 the count does not see through one          2
  V4 the document is validated before it is owned 3
  V5 a member name in a path is rendered raw     0 -- UNREACHABLE, reported
  V6 the failures are not sampled                1
  V7 the schema is not proved valid at import    0 -- EQUIVALENT, reported

FOUR BEGAN AS ZEROS AND THREE WERE MISSING CASES -- the two metaclass
descriptor shapes, the whole-category escape, and the sampling cap. The cap is
the instructive one: against the whole schema `iter_errors` yields ONE
top-level error, so the cap is UNREACHABLE there, and the case had to go where
it can actually be reached rather than pretend coverage.

THE THREE EQUIVALENCES, each with its reason rather than a shrug:

  N7  cutting the input before escaping and cutting the result after produce
      the SAME final string, because the removed characters escape to positions
      beyond the bound. It is load-bearing for the WORK, not the output, and no
      assertion can see the difference without timing. Kept, because "a bounded
      output is not a bounded operation" is the rule that put it there.
  V5  no construct in this frozen schema puts a caller-chosen NAME into an
      error path -- measured by walking the schema for `additionalProperties`
      with rules and `patternProperties`: zero. The rendering is defence in
      depth for a schema that later admits caller-named members.
  V7  proving the schemas at import cannot be distinguished, because the frozen
      schemas ARE valid and W4 may not edit them. It fails on the first import
      rather than on the first document, which is worth having and cannot be
      witnessed from inside a suite that ships valid schemas.


8. GATES

  XDG_RUNTIME_DIR=/tmp just gate   version + 297 tests + the locked build, all
                                   pass on Python 3.13.7
  the installed stage              297/297 from the wheel, with the RULED
                                   VALIDATOR installed offline from the local
                                   wheelhouse under --require-hashes
  exported names                   20 authority, 22 contracts
  the frozen schema assets         proved to have travelled into the wheel
  temp roots after the run         zero
  the frozen Node oracle           UNTOUCHED and still runnable -- v12/src/
                                   authority shows no diff and contracts.mjs
                                   still imports and digests
  whitespace-damage check          clean

30 regressions added; the suite is 267 -> 297.


9. STILL ABSENT ON PURPOSE

Cuts B through F, and `authority_port.py`. The port types the injected session,
and typing only the subset W4 uses is a decision I would rather make with cut
C's call sites in front of me than guess at now.
