W2929 / current authority W4 — HANDSHAKE AND THE CLOSED SURFACE (SPEC 2.1-2.5)
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
First delivery of this slice; no review to answer.


1. WHAT THIS SLICE IS, AND WHAT IT DELIBERATELY IS NOT

IN: 2.1 version negotiation and provider certification, 2.2 the withheld
client surface, 2.3 the required/optional/refused method sets, 2.4 the six
Baton agent-session capabilities, 2.5 experimental surfaces as diagnostics,
and section 9's obligation 4 (adapter identity), which the certified profile
already binds.

OUT, and named rather than left to be discovered:

  8.1 identity preservation and 8.2 the relay journal — these are about what
  the relay SENDS and what it records frame by frame. They need the transport
  and the journal, and they belong with the adapter composition that is still
  open.

  8.4 reconnect ambiguity — already named as still-open transport-ambiguity
  re-identification, and it reaches into W151's ambiguity path.

  8.5 cancellation forwarding — the manager's half of cancellation ordering
  is already implemented and signed off (items 3l-3o); the FORWARDING half is
  a relay act.

  6.5 the relay queue, unchanged from the event slice's statement.


2. THE THREE SENTENCES IT TURNS ON

THE SETS BELONG TO THE VERSION, NOT TO A PROFILE. 2.3 says so and gives the
reason: "a certified profile that disagrees with the policy actually enforced
is worse than no profile: it is a second source of truth wearing the first
one's authority." So the four sets are module constants. A profile supplies
which wire it speaks, which version it pins, and which build it was certified
against — never which methods are required.

THE RELAY ADVERTISES NOTHING, AND THE COMPARISON IS EXACT. 2.2 withholds every
client capability rather than everything unsafe. A subset check asks whether
what is present is safe; the rule is that nothing may be present, and a member
ACP adds next version would pass a subset check on the day it appeared.
`session` is STABLE, is not in the unstable set, and is still not advertised —
a case asserts that, because it is the difference between the two readings.

BINDING REPLACES NEGOTIATION; IT IS NOT A SECOND SPELLING OF IT. The Codex App
Server documents no protocolVersion, so there is nothing to negotiate and
nothing to refuse a downgrade against. Certification binds an exact server
build and its captured interface digest instead, and each door refuses the
other's profile so neither can be reached by the wrong one.


3. WRITTEN AND TESTED AGAINST THE FROZEN MODEL

The first event review caught me building a normalizer against section 6.2's
prose while the captured trace said something else — and my fixture agreed
with my code because I wrote both. So the constants here are transcribed from
`evidence/acp_boundary_model.py`, and the case file PARSES that file and
compares member for member rather than retyping them. A set transcribed twice
by one author is a set that can be wrong twice in the same direction.


4. BOUNDARIES

  certification first   a handshake runs under a currently certified profile
                        or refuses policy.profile-uncertified. Withdrawal is
                        visible here, not just at open time.
  exact version         no downgrade AND no upgrade; an answer is an
                        announcement, and the profile pinned what this manager
                        certified against.
  five methods          refused.capability, exhaustively driven one at a time.
  six capabilities      refused.capability, exhaustively driven one at a time.
                        A seventh gains nothing: session.reuse does not exist.
  outbound refusals     refused.capability for all twenty-one, "whether or not
                        advertised" — an agent offering session/resume changes
                        nothing about whether this relay may call it, and a
                        case drives exactly that.
  served client methods policy.denied for all eight, not refused.capability:
                        the agent is not asking whether the surface exists, it
                        is reaching for one the relay structurally withheld,
                        which is a section 4 violation.
  owned answers         the negotiated client capabilities and capability list
                        are copies; editing an answer must not reach the
                        module constant the next handshake returns.


5. MUTATIONS — THIRTEEN

  H1  the wire version is not compared exactly        1 case fails
  H2  the required methods are not required           1 case fails
  H3  the six capabilities are not mandatory          1 case fails
  H4  the handshake accepts an uncertified profile    2 cases fail
  H5  negotiation accepts a provider profile          1 case fails
  H6  binding accepts an ACP profile                  1 case fails
  H7  the observed build is not compared              1 case fails
  H8  the interface digest is not compared            1 case fails
  H9  the outbound refusal list is not consulted      2 cases fail
  H10 a client method is served                       1 case fails
  H11 the advertisement is a subset check             1 case fails
  H12 the answer aliases the module constants         2 cases fail
  H13 the experimental-API check is dropped           0  UNREACHABLE

H5 REPORTED ZERO ON THE FIRST PASS AND THE INSTRUMENT WAS AT FAULT — the same
class of error the previous round's evidence records twice, checked for this
time. The case offered wire version 1 against a profile pinning null, so the
VERSION rule refused it with the same pair for a different reason and the
wire-protocol rule was never consulted. The case now offers null, which the
profile pins exactly, so only the door being named can refuse; the mutation
fails.

H13 is MEASURED AS UNREACHABLE: the frozen schema makes `experimental_api` a
CONSTANT false, so such a profile cannot be certified at all and the runtime
check never fires. The case drives the refusal at CERTIFICATION, which is
where it actually lands. The check is kept because this function reads the
binding and a reader should see the rule where the binding is used, not have
to find it in a schema three files away. It is not counted as a guard.


6. REGRESSIONS — 14, in a new file

The four closed sets compared against the model's own literals; required and
refused proved disjoint, and required agent methods proved disjoint from
served client methods; the per-wire required sets; the withheld advertisement
including the stable-but-absent `session` member; six advertisement shapes
denied; exact-version negotiation with five rejected versions; every required
method removed one at a time; every session capability removed one at a time
plus a seventh ignored; uncertified and withdrawn profiles; provider binding
with a wrong build, a drifted interface and nothing observed; the experimental
API refused at certification; both doors refusing the other's profile; all
twenty-one outbound refusals and three permitted optionals; all eight served
client methods; and an advertised refused method still refused.


7. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       569 tests, 569 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2980 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        336 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN. The v12 count moved 555 -> 569.


8. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

Sections 6.5, 8.1, 8.2, 8.4 and 8.5; adapter prompt composition; the runtime
adapter contract; and re-identification after transport ambiguity. W543 owns
the tool-call `kind` prose/schema conflict and is untouched here.


9. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_handshake.mjs        NEW — the whole slice
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_handshake.test.mjs  NEW — 14 cases
