W2929 — plan item 3, FIRST HALF: the offer and the claim
Signed off before it: review-2026-08-22T21-05-52Z.md (foundation item 2).
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-22.


0. WHAT THIS TURN IS, AND WHAT IT IS NOT

Foundation item 2 was signed off and the handoff said to implement item 3's
restart-safe orchestration and item 4's adapters. This turn implements the
OFFER AND CLAIM half of item 3 — the dossier's own "Offer and claim" section,
steps 1 through 6 plus the restart rules.

NOT IMPLEMENTED, and named rather than implied by a green count:
  - the rest of item 3: assignment activation, runtime start and
    reconciliation by opaque runtime id, the ten orthogonal observation axes,
    cancellation ordering, output freeze, intake and cleanup;
  - all of item 4: the provider-neutral agent-session profile, session/turn/
    event normalization, and the runtime/agent adapter contracts with their
    scripted doubles.

The signed-off foundation was revalidated before anything was built on it:
239 v12 cases green against the tree as it stood.


1. WHAT LANDED — `v12/src/worker_manager/offers.mjs`

Every step is a DURABLE fact rather than an inference, because the whole
question this boundary answers is: after a crash, can the next incarnation
tell what actually happened?

STEP 1 AND 2 — issue. The Work projection and the participant's capacity are
read BEFORE any entropy is spent: a bearer minted for an offer that is then
refused is a secret that existed for no reason. The per-Work CAS is the
database's partial unique index, not a read-then-write check, because two
manager processes both pass a check made outside the write. The VERIFIER is
stored and the bearer is returned only after the commit.

STEP 3 — accept. `validateOfferDecide` proves the decision names ONE issued
offer and carries this exact verifier; one transaction then consumes the
verifier, freezes the intent digest, derives the fixed claim operation id and
stores a SEPARATE settlement deadline. A decline terminates and consumes the
verifier too — single-use across acceptance, decline and expiry alike, so a
decline can never be replayed into an acceptance.

STEP 4 — claim. The one fixed operation is submitted through the
participant-bound session, with the bearer held by `withSecret` for exactly
that act. The result is recorded before anything else may run: a manager that
activated an assignment it had not durably recorded could not, after a crash,
tell an activation it performed from one it did not.

STEP 5 — settle a lost result. BEFORE THE DEADLINE IT MAY ONLY OBSERVE. A
read saying "not committed" proves only its own instant, because a submitter
may already have passed its preconditions and be about to commit; retiring
early could close an identity the authority is still going to honour, and the
manager would record a refusal for a claim that WON. At or after the deadline
retirement is safe. Positive evidence that the claim refused permits immediate
retirement — that is an answer, not a guess. Every path ADOPTS an existing
retirement's bound disposition and reason, because whoever retired the
identity first decided what it means.

STEP 6 — the late record. A commit this manager never saw is recorded on
settlement, which is the whole reason the operation id is DERIVED rather than
minted.

RESTART, and the asymmetry is the point. An `issued` offer from a PRIOR
incarnation is not accepted: nothing durable says the bearer was delivered,
so honouring it means trusting a secret this process cannot account for. It
stays VISIBLE as `abandoned-after-restart` with its verifier consumed, and a
later offer uses a new bearer. An `accepted` offer IS recoverable, because
acceptance froze its authorization and its fixed operation. And only ANOTHER
incarnation's issued offers are abandoned — several managers coordinate
through one store, and abandoning on identity alone would let one live
manager destroy another's work.


2. ONE SIGNED-OFF LINE CHANGED, AND IT IS RECORDED

`validateOfferDecide` compared the verifier with `!==`. That exits at the
first differing byte, so the time taken tells a forger how much of the digest
it already has right — on the one comparison in this module that decides
whether authority is taken.

It uses `timingSafeEqual` now, with an unequal length refused first: a length
is not secret, since the schema already fixes the digest's shape.

I wrote a second, constant-time comparison in `offers.mjs` first and then
removed it. Two comparisons where one exits early leaves the leak exactly
where it was, so the fix belongs in the module that owns the derivation — and
`offers.mjs` passes the verifier through instead of re-checking it.


3. MUTATION CHECK — six

  M1  the bearer is minted before the reads          1 failed
  M2  a decline leaves the verifier unspent          2 failed
  M3  settlement may retire before the deadline      1 failed
  M4  a bound retirement is re-decided, not adopted  1 failed
  M5  restart abandons every incarnation's offer     1 failed
  M6  the claim operation id is minted, not derived  2 failed

Restored: 17/17 focused, 256/256 for the whole gate.

M6's FIRST RUN PASSED GREEN, and the case it named was a tautology: it
asserted `row.claim_operation_id === claimOperationId(offerId, intentDigest)`,
where both sides call the same function, so ANY implementation satisfies it.
What a minted id cannot satisfy is the property the derivation exists for —
a LATER incarnation, holding only the durable row, names the exact operation
the first submitted. The case derives it from the stored offer id and frozen
intent in a second process now, and also asserts a different intent gives a
different operation, so two acceptances cannot collide onto one identity.


4. A FIXTURE DEFECT OF MY OWN, MEASURED

The first version of this suite minted its own temporary roots and left
TWENTY behind — caught by running the gate under a `TMPDIR` bracket rather
than by reading the code. It uses the W2907 shared owned-root registry and the
`v12-manager-` family this Work already registered, and the bracket now
retains zero test-owned roots.


5. REGRESSIONS — 17 new (256 total, 239 before)

Issue: the verifier stored and the bearer returned, with the bearer proven
absent from every column AND the operation journal; each of the four
pre-entropy refusals driven separately with the mint proven never to have
run; an uncertified profile refused as `policy`, not as schema; the per-Work
CAS decided by the database across two connections.

Accept: the verifier consumed, the intent frozen, the derived operation id and
the separate deadline; a wrong bearer refused without consuming anything; a
spent verifier refused; expiry refused; a decline consuming the verifier and
freeing the Work for a new offer with a NEW bearer.

Claim and settle: exactly one fixed operation submitted with no identity
operand; observation-only before the deadline with no control row written;
retirement at the deadline; immediate retirement on positive refusal evidence;
a late record of a commit never seen; a bound retirement adopted rather than
re-decided.

Restart: a prior incarnation's issued offer abandoned but visible with its
verifier consumed; an accepted offer recoverable with its operation id; this
incarnation's own issued offer untouched.


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       256 tests, 256 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24 — all passing
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2960 passed, 1 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        316 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

The one pytest failure is a W4996 reviewer case from
`review-2026-08-22T21-21-32Z.md`, which landed while this turn was running.
W4996 is queued on `baton.impl` for its own turn.


7. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/offers.mjs        new — the offer and claim path
  v12/src/worker_manager/contracts.mjs     constant-time verifier comparison
  v12/src/worker_manager/store.mjs         the injected clock exposed, so an
                                           act built on this store stamps from
                                           the same instant source as the
                                           journal
  v12/test/worker_manager_offers.test.mjs  new — 17 cases
