W2929 / current authority W4 — RECONNECT AMBIGUITY (frozen SPEC 8.4)
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
First delivery of this slice; no review to answer.


1. WHY THIS ONE NEXT

Section 8.4 was on every "still not implemented" list this Work has written,
and the session axis landing last round is what made it buildable: transport
loss is exactly the ordinary way an epoch reaches `unknown`, and until the
axis existed there was no boundary to move it through. This is the first slice
that COMPOSES two earlier ones rather than adding a new one beside them.

IN: section 8.4's three facts and two refusals.

OUT, unchanged from the previous slices' statements: sections 6.5, 8.1, 8.2
and 8.5, adapter prompt composition, and the runtime adapter contract. W151
section 9's positive re-identification gate is also OUT and deliberately so —
see item 3.


2. THE DESIGN

A lost transport ENDS THE EPOCH. `handleTransportLoss` moves the durable axis
to `unknown` through `observeAgentSessionState`, so the full section 3.1
reference is proved and bound exactly as every other observation is, and the
answer reports three facts plus the outcome:

  sessionState                                          unknown
  resume                                                false
  reprompt                                              false
  nextEpochAllowedWithoutRuntimeReidentification        false
  turnOutcome        transport-lost if one was in flight, else null

IT REPORTS THE TURN OUTCOME AND DOES NOT RECORD IT. `recordTurn` needs an
allocated turn token, a prompt digest and the supervision window, and this
boundary holds none of them; inventing them to write a turn document here
would be minting evidence about a turn it never saw. The caller records the
turn with its own operands and this answer's outcome. A case asserts that
`transport-lost` is one of the closed eight, so this boundary cannot become a
second outcome vocabulary.

WHETHER A TURN WAS IN FLIGHT IS STATED, NOT INFERRED. It decides an outcome,
and section 5.4 spends a section on what an outcome may not be derived from,
so a non-boolean is `integrity.schema` rather than something truthy.

RE-PROMPTING IS `ambiguous.operation`, not `refused.precondition`. The manager
is not saying the request is malformed or out of order — it is saying it
CANNOT KNOW what the first attempt did, against a workspace that already holds
that attempt's partial output. The closed pair carries that to a caller who
never read section 8.4. The prompt argument is ignored on purpose: a signature
accepting nothing would invite a caller to believe some other prompt might be
acceptable.

`transportReachabilityReidentifies` always answers false, the mirror of
section 7.4's quiescence gate. A fact about a socket is not a fact about the
process that held the generation.


3. WHAT I DID NOT BUILD, AND WHY IT IS STATED RATHER THAN OMITTED

W151 section 9's positive runtime re-identification is not implemented here.
It is a different Work's gate and it needs runtime inspection this manager
slice does not have.

But the FLAG is implemented, and that is the half worth having now:
`nextEpochAllowedWithoutRuntimeReidentification: false` is an explicit answer
rather than an absence. A later slice that mints a new epoch has to contend
with a recorded `false` instead of with a gap in a section it may not have
read. `nextEpoch` is untouched — this slice adds no gate to it — and that is
named here so the boundary is not mistaken for one.


4. MUTATIONS — EIGHT, ALL WITNESSED

  R1 the axis is not moved to unknown              4 cases fail
  R2 the epoch is closed rather than left unknown  4 cases fail
  R3 resume becomes permitted                      1 case fails
  R4 a new epoch needs no re-identification        1 case fails
  R5 the turn outcome is inferred rather than stated 1 case fails
  R6 a lost turn reports no outcome                1 case fails
  R7 re-prompting is permitted                     1 case fails
  R8 reachability re-identifies the runtime        1 case fails

R2 is the one section 3.3 exists to prevent — ending the epoch at `closed`
rather than `unknown` would record a terminal fact for every turn the epoch
started when the honest answer is that nobody saw the ending. It fails,
because the axis refuses the edge and because the answer names the state.


5. REGRESSIONS — 9, in a new file

The full answer shape with the durable move; no turn in flight and the honest
default; `transport-lost` proved to be one of the closed eight; four
non-boolean in-flight values; EXHAUSTIVE over the nine session states, with
the refusing set asserted to be exactly `agent-quiescent` and `closed` — the
two that already ended knowingly; the identity question asked of this boundary
explicitly, in both the wrong-label and malformed-reference directions plus
the agreeing case; no session at all; five re-prompt shapes; and five
reachability shapes.

THE IDENTITY CASE IS THE COMMITMENT THE LAST CORRECTION ENDED ON. That finding
needed three rounds because the missing component never breaks a happy path,
so this boundary got the question asked of it explicitly rather than inferred
from whether its own subject-matter cases pass.


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       601 tests, 601 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2980 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        336 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN. The v12 count moved 592 -> 601. No existing
assertion was changed and no schema change was needed.


7. STILL NOT IMPLEMENTED

Sections 6.5, 8.1, 8.2 and 8.5; adapter prompt composition; the runtime
adapter contract; and W151 section 9's re-identification gate. W543, W641 and
W771 own their contract defects; W771 remains mandatory to revalidate at final
W4 composition.


8. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_reconnect.mjs        NEW — the whole slice
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_reconnect.test.mjs  NEW — 9 cases
