W2929 / current authority W4 — THE AGENT-SESSION OBSERVATION AXIS (SPEC 7.3-7.4)
Date: 2026-08-23. Implementer: baton.claude.
First delivery of this slice; no review to answer.


1. WHY THIS SLICE, AND WHY NOW

The turn slice's admission reads agent_sessions.state and the event slice
deliberately does not. Nothing WRITES the axis: openAgentSession inserts
'not-started' and closeAgentSession sets 'closed', so seven of the nine states
were unreachable and the turn slice's own progress note said so — "nothing in
this slice moves a session out of not-started yet". This closes that.

IN: section 7.3's nine states and their successor table, the durable monotone
axis, and section 7.4's runtime-quiescence rule.

OUT: sections 6.5, 8.1, 8.2, 8.4 and 8.5, adapter prompt composition and the
runtime adapter contract, all unchanged from the previous slices' statements.


2. THE DESIGN

SESSION_STATES and ALLOWED_SESSION_SUCCESSORS are transcribed from the frozen
design model, and the case file PARSES that model's table and compares edge
for edge. The diagram in section 7.3 draws the spine; the model carries the
exact successor sets including the edges the spine does not draw —
ready -> cancel-requested, turn-ended -> prompting for a second supervised
turn in one epoch, and the three -> closed edges.

A SELF-OBSERVATION IS NOT A MOVE. The axis is what the relay has OBSERVED, and
observing the same state twice is ordinary; refusing it would make a duplicate
look like a regression, which is the reading the event slice already rejected
for frames. observeAgentSessionState answers { state, moved: false }.

DECIDED INSIDE THE WRITE TRANSACTION, for the reason the runtime observations
already carry: a read of the current state followed by a separate write is not
a monotone axis across two manager connections.

UNKNOWN IS TERMINAL IN THE DIRECTION THAT MATTERS. It never becomes closed,
because closed asserts a terminal fact for every turn the epoch started and
unknown means nobody saw the ending.

AND AGENT-QUIESCENT CANNOT REACH UNKNOWN EITHER — the interesting exception,
and my own first assertion got it wrong. agent-quiescent means a terminal turn
fact WAS observed after cancellation was ordered, so the ending is known;
moving to unknown there would be a regression in knowledge rather than the
honest absence of it. The case now states that as a filtered list rather than
a loose "every non-terminal state can reach unknown".

Section 7.4's gate always answers false and is driven over all nine states. It
validates its argument rather than ignoring it, because answering false to a
malformed question is how a caller concludes it asked a good one.


3. OBSERVED DEFECT IN SIGNED-OFF CODE — NOT FIXED HERE, AND WHY

closeAgentSession (agent_session.mjs, delivered and signed off in the session
slice) sets state = 'closed' for ANY row whose state is not already 'closed'.
Measured against the frozen table with the retained probe
`evidence/probe-close-session-axis-2026-08-23.mjs`:

  not-started       -> closed   FORBIDDEN (successors: initializing, unknown)
  initializing      -> closed   permitted
  ready             -> closed   permitted
  prompting         -> closed   FORBIDDEN (turn-ended, cancel-requested,
                                           unknown)
  turn-ended        -> closed   permitted
  cancel-requested  -> closed   FORBIDDEN (agent-quiescent, unknown)
  agent-quiescent   -> closed   permitted
  unknown           -> closed   FORBIDDEN — and this is the one section 3.3
                                calls out by name as recording knowledge that
                                was never acquired
  closed            -> closed   no-op

Full output: `evidence/observed-close-session-axis-conflict-2026-08-23.txt`.

I DID NOT REWIRE IT, deliberately, and the reason is not caution:

  a) Existing signed-off cases close freshly opened ('not-started') sessions
     to free the posture, so routing close through the axis would fail them.
     Editing signed-off assertions to match my new module is exactly the move
     the reviewer has corrected me for twice.

  b) There is a REAL contract question underneath, and it is not mine to
     settle. The partial unique index frees a posture only at 'closed'. Under
     the frozen table a session that never initialized can only end at
     'unknown', and 'unknown' does not free the posture — the schema comment
     says so on purpose ("re-identification after it is a gate this slice has
     not built"). So a strict reading deadlocks the posture for any session
     that ends before initializing. Either the table needs an edge, or
     closeAgentSession needs a different lifecycle, or posture freeing needs
     to stop depending on 'closed'. That is a contract ruling.

So this is raised for an owning record, exactly as the tool-call `kind` and
client-capability conflicts were before they became W543 and W641. The new
module does not paper over it: it refuses every forbidden edge, and the
conflict is that one existing function does not go through it.


4. MUTATIONS — EIGHT

  A1 unknown gains a successor                        2 cases fail
  A2 the successor table is not consulted             4 cases fail
  A3 a self-observation is treated as a move          2 cases fail
  A4 the durable move skips the transition check      2 cases fail
  A5 the stored state is not proved                   0  alone
  A6 the observed state is not proved                 0  alone
  A5 + A6 together                                    1 case fails
  A7 the quiescence gate answers true for quiescent   1 case fails
  A8 the durable row is not updated                   1 case fails

A5 and A6 MUTUALLY MASK, and finding that out fixed a real gap in my own case
file rather than in the code. Either validation alone catches a bad state
arriving against a good stored one, or the reverse — but the input where
NEITHER covers for the other is observing an invented state against a row that
already holds that same invented state, because the self-observation shortcut
answers before anything is proved. My case did not drive it. It does now, and
the pair mutation fails. A zero-witness mutation is a claim about the code;
this time it was a claim about the test.


5. REGRESSIONS — 12, in a new file

The nine states against the placed schema's enum; the successor table parsed
out of the frozen model and compared edge for edge; the terminal two and the
agent-quiescent exception; ALL EIGHTY-ONE ordered pairs decided in both
directions with the permitted count derived from the table rather than
counted by the loop; six malformed states in both argument positions and at
the quiescence gate; the durable spine including turn-ended -> prompting;
self-observation; three regressions from turn-ended; every state refused from
each of the two terminal ones; no session at all; an invented stored state in
both directions; and the quiescence gate over all nine.


6. GATES

  cd v12 && npm test                       588 tests, 588 pass, 0 fail
  the same under a TMPDIR bracket          zero test-owned roots retained
  design models, all four:                 64, 56, 74, 24
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work   2980 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work              52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test        336 pass, 0 fail
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test          55 pass, 0 fail
  whitespace-damage check                  clean

EVERY GATE IN THE TREE IS GREEN. The v12 count moved 576 -> 588. No existing
test assertion was changed and no schema change was needed.


7. FILES CHANGED

  v12/src/worker_manager/agent_session_axis.mjs        NEW — the whole slice
  v12/test/worker_manager_agent_session_axis.test.mjs  NEW — 12 cases
  evidence/probe-close-session-axis-2026-08-23.mjs      NEW — the retained
                                                        probe for section 3
  evidence/observed-close-session-axis-conflict-...txt  NEW — its output
