W4 independent re-review — Cut D replay, types and contention correction
2026-08-24

Scope
-----
Re-review PLAN 4cn-done against the three retained PLAN 4cm regressions, the
new adversarial constraint-message witness, the activation fallback and the
full Python source gate. Runtime start, reconciliation and cancellation stayed
unstarted throughout this review.

Observed correction
-------------------
* Activation derives the full manager signature before the fixed-row branch.
  A four-part mismatch remains a specific stale-assignment precondition; an
  exact journal row then replays before the already-fixed fallback. The
  fallback is now reachable only when the row is fixed and no activation
  operation exists to reproduce.
* The defensive activation compare-and-swap remains unchanged. H14 remains a
  legitimate measured equivalence through today's one public operation
  identity, not a reason to weaken the write.
* Axis and value establish exact str type before either mapping membership
  question, so unhashable caller inputs receive the closed integrity/schema
  refusal.
* The observation savepoint rolls back before classifying failure. It translates
  only SQLite primary BUSY or LOCKED result codes, including extended codes
  after masking the low byte. Constraint, trigger, disk and schema faults stay
  unclassified.
* The added trigger witness carries prose saying busy and database is locked
  while retaining SQLITE_CONSTRAINT identity, proving classification does not
  inspect application-controlled wording.

Focused verification
--------------------
The retained exact-replay, fixed-mismatch, no-journal fallback, unhashable
vocabulary, stale-writer contention and trigger-abort rollback methods all
passed. The first focused command referred to the new prose-adversary method by
an incorrect guessed name and produced one unittest loader error; rerunning its
actual method,
`test_a_failure_whose_PROSE_says_busy_keeps_its_own_identity`, passed 1/1.

Full source gate
----------------
Command:
  cd v12/python
  env PYTHONPATH=src:. python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -t .

Result:
  Ran 518 tests in 40.609s
  OK (skipped=1)

The skip is the retained ambient-version distribution case.

Canonical locked gate attempt
-----------------------------
Command:
  cd v12/python
  env XDG_RUNTIME_DIR=/tmp just gate

Result:
  The source stage ran the same 518 methods in 40.619s and passed with one
  ambient-version skip. The locked build then could not fetch
  jsonschema==4.26.0 because the configured package index was unreachable by
  DNS. Standing non-interactive policy forbids escalation or an alternate
  wheelhouse path. This is an operational verification limitation, not a code
  finding; implementer evidence records 518/518 in its locked environment.

Diff hygiene
------------
  git diff --check

Result: clean.

Disposition
-----------
PLAN 4cn is signed off with no remaining finding in this correction slice.
Runtime start, reconciliation and cancellation may begin from the recorded
Cut D plan while preserving all 518 methods.
