W4 — revalidation of the Python boundary's two prerequisites
Date: 2026-08-24. Implementer: baton.claude.
Boundary revalidated: review-2026-08-24T04-06-44Z.md and
evidence/python-boundary-revalidation-2026-08-24.txt.
NOTHING IMPLEMENTED. No file under v12/python was created or changed by this
episode; the measurements below are reads.


1. WHY THIS EPISODE IS A REVALIDATION AND NOT A CUT

The boundary ends: "Do not route W4 to implementation until those two
prerequisites and the proposed package/POD boundary are approved." W4 is
routed to implementation now, and the visible cause is that its ledger
dependency closed -- W2845 is closed satisfying. A dependency closing is not
the same event as an approval landing, and the thread carries no message after
the routing request.

So the useful thing to do is the thing my role asks for anyway: revalidate
every pinned decision against the current tree, and report what is and is not
now true. One prerequisite is met. The other is HALF met, and the missing half
cannot be met by editing files.


2. PREREQUISITE ONE -- THE PYTHON AUTHORITY SIBLING: MET

W2845 is closed satisfying and delivers exactly the object `authority_port.py`
was specified to type: an already-minted, participant-bound session that grants
no bootstrap, no configuration, no path and no store handle.

The boundary asked for "participant plus project/slot/operation reads and
claim, settlement, activity, cancel, end, pass, publish and gate transitions".
Measured against the delivered package:

  claim, settle_operation, activity, cancel, end, pass_work, publish,
  install_gate, satisfy_gate                          ALL PRESENT
  project_work, slot_holder, operation_record,
  operation_result                                    ALL PRESENT
  Session.participant                                 PRESENT
  claim_signature exported from the package           PRESENT

That last one matters more than its size. The boundary forbids W4 mirroring
authority, and a manager that recomputed the claim signature would be a second
authority on whether two claims are the same claim. It is exported, so W4
consumes it rather than reinventing it.

Sixteen transitions and sixteen reads are available in total; W4 will use the
subset above and should type only that subset, because a port that names more
than it uses is a capability nobody granted.


3. PREREQUISITE TWO -- TOOLCHAIN AND VALIDATOR: HALF MET

MET, and proven by W2845's own gate:

  the Python floor            requires-python = ">=3.13", refused at the gate
                              rather than assumed
  the lock mechanism          requirements.lock with per-artifact SHA-256, an
                              offline wheelhouse, --require-hashes and
                              --ignore-installed, and a build that REFUSES
                              rather than skips when the wheelhouse is absent
  reproducibility             the distribution installs, imports from
                              site-packages, and passes its suite from the
                              installed layout

NOT MET:

  the wheelhouse holds two artifacts, pip and setuptools. There is no
  validator wheel in it.
  jsonschema 4.19.2 exists ONLY as an ambient system dist-package at
  /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages. The boundary itself calls ambient packages
  "research evidence, not a reproducible product dependency", and the locked
  build stage cannot see it: it installs into an isolated venv with
  --ignore-installed and resolves only from the wheelhouse.

So under the build discipline W2845 delivered and the reviewer approved, a
Draft 2020-12 validator is not obtainable today.

I confirmed the frozen schemas themselves are fine, so this is a supply
question and not a schema question:

  worker-control-1.0  be1a536bc9aa2d7e23749cf54ceb98906f8dceeb8de9d72e2abc17b9baf18658
  agent-session-1.0   22e6e61c8fbe4b4312b0bc5e33e5be23dff7ba944e213a2855106dc06b55202c

Both still byte-identical to their canonical dossier assets, both declare
https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema, and both pass
Draft202012Validator.check_schema under the ambient library.


4. THE PART THAT MAKES THIS A DECISION RATHER THAN A CHORE

"Add a wheel to the wheelhouse" is not one wheel. The minimum runtime closure
for jsonschema 4.19.2, measured from the installed metadata:

  jsonschema==4.19.2            jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
  referencing==0.36.2           attrs==25.3.0
  typing-extensions==4.13.2     rpds-py==0.21.0

Six distributions. AND `rpds-py` IS A COMPILED RUST EXTENSION --
rpds.cpython-313-x86_64-linux-gnu.so -- with no pure-Python fallback. It cannot
be built offline on this host without a prebuilt wheel and a Rust toolchain, so
provisioning is a real environment change and not a file edit.

I did not attempt a network fetch. That is an environment action outside what I
own, and guessing at it would be the wrong kind of initiative.


5. THE OPTIONS, MEASURED RATHER THAN RECOMMENDED

I am not choosing. These are what the measurements actually leave open.

  A. PROVISION THE WHEELHOUSE. Six wheels with hashes, one compiled, added to
     the offline wheelhouse and to requirements.lock. Cut A then proceeds as
     written. Cost: an environment change plus six pinned third-party
     artifacts in a distribution whose current runtime dependency set is
     deliberately EMPTY, and which has a case asserting that.

  B. VALIDATOR AT TEST TIME ONLY. The runtime keeps the exact-POD semantic
     rules the ruling already approved, and a TEST-time conformance harness
     proves those rules agree with the frozen schemas over a vector corpus.
     This is not the "partial handwritten validator" the boundary forbids --
     that was forbidden as a SUBSTITUTE for the product validator, and this
     makes the schema the oracle rather than the implementation. It keeps the
     runtime dependency set empty and moves the third-party artifacts into a
     test extra. Cost: the agreement is proven over a corpus rather than
     universally, so the corpus becomes the thing to argue about.

  C. NARROW THE CUT. Scope cut A to the package skeleton, byte-identical
     schema assets and digests, exact-POD ownership, closed refusals and
     bounded diagnostics -- everything except schema validation -- and take the
     validator decision before the part that needs it. Cost: cut A stops being
     a whole obligation, which is the property the serial-cut plan was built
     on.

The three differ in what they cost, not in whether they work, so this is a
product call and not an implementation detail. I have a mild preference for B
because it preserves the empty runtime lock that W2845 was reviewed into
having, but B changes what "a real validator pinned in the package" means and
that sentence is the reviewer's, not mine.


6. WHAT I DID NOT DO, AND WHY

I did not start cut A. The boundary says not to route to implementation until
the prerequisites and the package/POD boundary are APPROVED, and one
prerequisite is still open. Starting the parts that do not need the validator
would be choosing option C by doing it, which is the kind of decision I have
been told twice this campaign to route rather than take.

I did not add a validator, vendor one, or write a substitute.

I did not touch the frozen Node reference, which remains the executable
evidence this port is measured against.
