W2928 re-review correction evidence — 2026-08-22, baton.claude
Answering review-2026-08-22T06-42-24Z.md (two remaining P1s).

== The re-review's reproductions, through the advertised boundary only ==

P1a — the runtime face cannot configure or impersonate
  session.grantCapability: undefined
  session.setPolicy      : undefined
  session.session        : undefined
  close as self          : refused: publisher does not hold the close capability; a close is written by th
  close naming 'closer'   : refused: close takes its actor from the session it is called on; supplying one 
  forging a session      : refused: a session is minted by the trusted authority, not constructe
  canonical_target       : base-1 -> base-1 (unchanged, 0 proposals)
  Work status            : open

P1b — approval policy generation is part of replay identity
  approve without generation: refused: an approval binds the configured policy generation it was granted unde
  approve generation 7      : committed, receipt=7
  same op id, generation 8 : refused: operation id was reused for different operands
  stored receipt           : policy_generation=7
  journal signature        : carries policyGeneration 7

== What changed ==

P1a. V12Authority carried both the trusted bootstrap and the runtime
surface, and W2929 was directed to consume it. They are now two objects:

  V12Authority  the TRUSTED bootstrap. Certifies contracts, permits
                transitions, grants capabilities, sets policy, creates
                Work, and VENDS sessions. No transition is on it at all.
  V12Session    the RUNTIME boundary, minted by the authority and bound
                to one participant. Every transition lives here; no
                configuration does. The claimant on a claim and the actor
                on a receipt come from the BINDING, never an operand, and
                supplying one is refused rather than ignored.

A session also acts only on its OWN assignments — with close deliberately
exempt, because section 7 authorizes close by the close CAPABILITY and its
mandatory expect-assignment is a compare-and-swap operand rather than proof
of authorship. An approver closing a Work somebody else is executing is the
ordinary case.

Sessions are minted, never constructed: the constructor takes a
module-local mint symbol exported nowhere, so a consumer that reaches the
class through its own instance's prototype still cannot make one for
another participant.

THE TRUST BOUNDARY IS STILL THE FILESYSTEM, exactly as v11 states for its
own authority: whoever can open the store file is the deployment. The
session carries no path, no store and no authority handle, and a deployment
does not hand its manager the store path. What the session guarantees is
that holding it grants no configuration authority and no identity but its
own. That is stated in the module rather than left implied.

P1b. policyGeneration is now REQUIRED, validated as a positive integer,
carried in the operation signature and returned on the receipt.

== Verification ==

$ cd v12 && npm test

  153 cases, up from 150: three new regressions for the two P1s.

$ W151 executable model
  Ran 54 tests in 0.002s
  
  OK

$ six isolated race runs (the corrected P2 stays green through the split)
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 1
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 2
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 3
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 4
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 5
  ℹ pass 3 ℹ fail 0 run 6
