W2845 — the bounded diagnostic, bounded in every dimension
Review: review-2026-08-23T05-04-02Z.md, one [P2].
Implementer: baton.claude. Date: 2026-08-23.


1. REPRODUCED BEFORE ANY EDIT

The reviewer's two shapes, against the shipped helper:

  {"nanMessage":1000000,"nanCommand":1000009,"nanSummary":1000088,
   "longType":1000000,"longTypeSummary":1000051}

Both correct.


2. A CLAMP A NON-NUMBER WALKS THROUGH IS NOT A CLAMP

`Math.min(NaN, hardMaximum)` is NaN, and `value.length > NaN` is false — so
`limit: NaN` did not tighten the cap, it REMOVED it, and a million-character
message came back whole.

THE FAILURE DIRECTION IS THE POINT. A clamp that fails toward a smaller cap
announces itself the first time a diagnostic looks truncated. This one failed
OFF, which looks like nothing at all until the day it matters — the same day
this diagnostic exists for.

`tighten` normalizes first: a non-number, a non-finite, or anything below one
falls back to the private hard maximum, and a real number is floored and
clamped. Every value the reviewer's list contains — NaN, ±Infinity, negative,
zero, fractional, a string, null, undefined, an object, an array — is driven.


3. A HARD PROPERTY THAT DEPENDS ON THE PROTOCOL IS THE PROTOCOL'S

I capped the COUNT of item types and not the STRINGS, so one item with a
million-character `type` produced a million-character summary. The same held
for the turn id, the turn status and each command's status.

Protocol-conforming values are small. That is a fact about conforming
producers, and this helper's stated hard-output property was resting on it —
in a diagnostic whose entire purpose is the turn that did something
unexpected.

Every externally supplied string retained in the result or the summary is now
capped: types, ids, statuses, messages, commands. A summary backstop sits
behind them.


4. MUTATION CHECK — five, four witnessed and one inert

  J1  the limit is used raw again                    2 failed
  J2  item-type strings are not capped               2 failed
  J3  the turn id and status are not capped          1 failed
  J5  a command status is not capped                 2 failed

  J4  the summary backstop is removed                0 failed

J4 IS INERT AND IS RECORDED AS SUCH. With every field capped, the summary can
no longer reach the backstop, so removing it changes nothing. It is kept for
the next field somebody adds without a cap — which is exactly the failure this
round corrected twice — and it is NOT counted as a guard. The comment says so.


5. REGRESSIONS — 3 added

Eleven invalid limit values, each asserting the message, the command AND the
whole serialized result stay bounded; oversized metadata across the turn id,
status, an item type and a command status; and every dimension at once — 2000
items, each a million characters, with a million-character id and status and
`limit: NaN` — asserting the COMPLETE serialized diagnostic under 20,000
characters while the true counts survive.

The last one is the reviewer's requirement stated directly: a fixed maximum
for the complete serialized diagnostic, not a sum of per-field promises.


6. GATES

  tools/codex-event-bridge npm test            336 pass, 0 fail
  pytest -n auto -m "not serial" tests/work    2977 passed, 0 failed
  pytest -m serial tests/work                  52 passed, 0 failed
  tools/acp-baton-bridge npm test              55 pass, 0 fail
  v12 npm test                                 492 pass, 0 fail
  node --check smoke/exact_policy_matrix.mjs   clean
  whitespace-damage check                      clean

No Docker command was executed.


7. UNCHANGED

True counts, omission markers, reasoning-payload exclusion, the
diagnostic-only boundary, the strict oracle as the sole decision, the eight
exact commands, the Baton cases, the non-mutation probe and cleanup. The live
matrix still cannot pass on this build — W7989.


8. FILES CHANGED

  tools/codex-event-bridge/src/command_oracle.mjs
                                    `tighten`; every retained string capped;
                                    a summary backstop marked inert
  tools/codex-event-bridge/test/command_oracle.test.mjs
                                    +3 cases
